# Development workflow (Git based)

Make sure you have reviewed the [contributing guide](CONTRIBUTING.md).

<a name="pull-requests"></a>
## Pull requests

Good pull requests - bug fixes, improvements, new features - are a fantastic
help. They should remain focused in scope and avoid containing unrelated
commits.

Please ask before embarking on any significant pull request (e.g.
implementing features, refactoring code), otherwise you risk spending a lot of
time working on something that the project team might not want to merge into the code base.

Please adhere to the coding conventions used throughout the project (indentation,
comments, etc.).

Adhering to the following this process is the best way to get your work
merged:

1. [Fork](http://help.github.com/fork-a-repo/) the repo, clone your fork,
   and configure the remotes:

   ```bash
   # Clone your fork of the repo into the current directory
   git clone https://github.com/<your-username>/<repo-name>
   # Navigate to the newly cloned directory
   cd <repo-name>
   # Assign the original repo to a remote called "upstream"
   git remote add upstream https://github.com/<upsteam-owner>/<repo-name>
   ```

2. If you cloned a while ago, get the latest changes from upstream:

   ```bash
   git checkout <dev-branch>
   git pull upstream <dev-branch>
   ```

3. Create a new topic branch (off the main project development branch) to
   contain your feature, change, or fix:

   ```bash
   git checkout -b <topic-branch-name>
   ```

4. Commit your changes in logical chunks. Please adhere to the git commit
   message guidelines below or your code is unlikely be merged into the main project. 

    * Git commit messages a should be capitalized, short (50 chars or less) summary

    * Add additional explanatory text, if necessary.
    
    * Write your commit message in the imperative: "Fix bug" and not "Fixed bug" or "Fixes bug."  This convention matches up with commit messages generated by commands like git merge and git revert.

    * Further paragraphs come after blank lines.

    * Bullet points are okay, too. A hyphen or asterisk is used for the bullet, followed by a single space, with blank lines in between.

    * Use a hanging indent
  

5. Push your topic branch up to your fork:

   ```bash
   git push origin <topic-branch-name>
   ```

6.  [Open a Pull Request](https://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests/)
    with a clear title and description.
